let's go straight to Dr T Ahmed he's an
emergency medical physician who was
working in Gaza a little earlier this
year he served as a medical escort for a
child who was evacuated to the United
States more Specialized Care he joins us
now from Chicago
so astonishing figures really over
22,000 people suffering from
lifechanging injuries in Gaza that's a
quarter of those injured what do you
make of these figures
well I I think this is something that
many who are involved in humanitarian
relief and many of the healthcare
workers on the ground and international
healthcare workers this is something
that we've been suspecting something
that uh has underscored the urgency to
stop the aggression against the Gaza
Strip I want to kind of say a couple of
things about the report that the who
analysis kind of mentions first these
are very conservative estimates um
they're doing so in a way to let you
know that there is something urgent
Happening Here year a quarter of the
more than 990,000 people who've been
injured will require care for the rest
of their lives but that number is likely
to be astronomically higher they're
using conservative estimates and this is
something that should scare everyone and
what kind of injuries are we talking
about here when they say life altering I
just want to kind of paint the picture
of the three most common injuries here
you mentioned spinal cord and brain
injuries these are people who need
aroundthe clock care these are people
who will need to be at least checked uh
once or twice a day we want to make sure
that they have the best chance at
surviving these injuries we're talking
about major Burns Burns that put you at
risk for developing an infection and
potentially dying as a result of that
we're talking about amputations limb
amputations things that will alter the
course of your life forever with respect
to whether or not you may be able to
work again whether you can do activities
of daily living like being able to go to
the bathroom these are the kinds of
injuries we're talking about now when
you picture that and you realize that
we're saying that an entire population
of people have been deeply affected by
this that virtually no family will be
untouched you think about really how
catastrophic this is how many how much
resources will be required to address
the needs of all of these injured people
and where will the money come from who
will rebuild the health care
infrastructure that's been destroyed
over the last 11 months how are we going
to make sure that the people that I just
mentioned that miraculously survived the
intense bombing by the Israeli military
how can we make sure that they don't
suffer silently or that they don't
succumb to these injuries a year later
or two years later Dr Tara Ahmed you
mentioned uh the limb amputations
because those were figures that really
stood out to stood out to me around
4,000 limb amputations have taken place
over the course of this war during the
course of the last year and many of
those affected will of course be
children tell me when someone loses a
leg or an arm or it's amputated what
happens next what sort of Care and
Rehabilitation would a person need
if somebody survives this devastating
injury of course the initial phase of
this is the surgery that will be
required but afterwards that's the most
important part of the recovery you want
to make sure that an infection doesn't
develop you want to make sure that this
person who has suffered who has suffered
this severely disfiguring injury this
injury that has rendered them
potentially immobile or they're not
going to be able to you know go to the
bathroom or go to school what can we do
to support their recovery how do we make
sure that they're able to get back on
their feet this acquires rehabilitation
services in fact in the United States we
have rehab hospitals dedicated to this
so once you're out of the hospital
during that really initial critical
phase the real work starts and you go
and you work with a physical therapist
with an occupational therapist it should
also be noted that this specific
analysis by The Who said that from
January to May January to May that over
that almost 40 physical therapists have
been killed in the Gaza Strip so we have
injured patients that they don't have
necessarily the services available to
them but we also have a human resources
problem the people that can help save
some of these lives are being killed
they're being targeted so this is
something that's really important to
know so what you're saying is the sort
of Rehabilitation we're talking about
here people are not able to get in
Gaza yeah they are not able to get it in
Gaza it's not readily available and it's
for all of the people that are involved
in this care the people who would be
providing these Services we have to
recognize that they're also under attack
they're being being targeted and that
there is a very short supply of the
healthcare workers needed to support
these Services if they were somehow
available if a hospital was still
functioning I mean we're talking about
500 healthcare workers that have been
killed since the start of this in
October and so this is a major problem
that we all have to recognize and so
making things like medical evacuations
easier making sure that this is an
international effort is of Paramount
importance and that's not happening
right now in fact it's incredibly
difficult to get somebody out of the
Gaza Strip and to get them the care that
they need Dr Tera Ahmed I appreciate you
speaking to us on Al jazer an emergency
medical physician who was working in
Gaza earlier this
year thank you thank you for having
me make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer